[ADD] Recruitment: Recruitment analysis report (#10687)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/hr/recruitment/recruitment_analysis.rst

====================
Recruitment analysis
====================

Reporting is a helpful tool for a recruitment department so they can see which job positions have
the most applicants, which have the most referrals, or how long it takes for applicants to move
through the pipeline.

Knowing how many applicants each specific job position has, along with the numbers for those hired
and refused, can provide valuable insights. This information can assist the recruiting team to pivot
their strategies to acquire the most desirable candidates.

Recruitment analysis report
===========================

Start by navigating to :menuselection:`Recruitment app --> Reporting --> Recruitment Analysis`.
This presents a line chart of all applicants for the last year.

Three separate color-coded metrics are presented: :guilabel:`In Progress`, :guilabel:`Hired`, and
:guilabel:`Refused`.

> Hover the cursor over a month of the chart and a pop-up window appears, and displays the specific

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hover the cursor over a month of the chart, and a pop-up window appears, displaying the specific
```

numbers for that month.

.. image:: recruitment_analysis/line-chart.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The default Recruitment Analysis report.

Pivot table view
----------------

For a more detailed view of the information in the :guilabel:`Recruitment Analysis` report, click
the :icon:`oi-view-pivot` :guilabel:`(Pivot)` icon in the top-right corner. This displays all the
information in a pivot table.

> In this view, the job positions are displayed in the rows, and the total numbers of applicants in
> their various stages, are the columns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this view, the job positions are displayed in the rows, and the total numbers of applicants for each stage are displayed in the columns.
```

> their various stages, are the columns.

Reviewer: You should mention that the data displayed in the rows and columns can be changed.

In this example, there are 17 total applicants. Out of that 17, three have been hired, and four

> refused. Each job position lists the specific number of applicants, hired, and refused candidates
> for that job position. The :guilabel:`Experienced Developer` position has eight total applicants,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
refused. Each job position lists the corresponding number of applicants hired and refused. The :guilabel:`Experienced Developer` position has eight total applicants,
```

two of which were hired, and two were refused.

.. image:: recruitment_analysis/pivot-view.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The detailed pivot table view.

> Applicants with referrals

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use case: applicants with referrals
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To get a better understanding of how effective the company's :doc:`referral program <../referrals>`
is, the :guilabel:`Recruitment Analysis` report can be modified to show how many applicants were
referred by current employees.

From the :icon:`oi-view-pivot` :guilabel:`(Pivot)` view of the :guilabel:`Recruitment Analysis`
report, first click on the :guilabel:`Measures` drop-down button.

Click both :guilabel:`Has Referrer` and :guilabel:`Count`, to activate those two measures. Then,
click :guilabel:`# Applicant`, :guilabel:`# Hired`, and :guilabel:`# Refused` to deactivate those
default measures.

> Now the column displays the number of applicants that came from a referral in the :guilabel:`Has

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, the column displays the number of applicants that came from a referral in the :guilabel:`Has
```

Referrer` column, and the total number of applicants in the :guilabel:`Count` column.

.. image:: recruitment_analysis/referral.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The detailed pivot table view displaying the number of referrals and the total applicants.

In this example, the :guilabel:`Experienced Developer` job position has the most applicants from
referrals. Out of the eight applicants, six have applied through a referral from a current employee.
Meanwhile, the :guilabel:`Marketing and Community Manager` job position has the least amount of
referrals out of the total applicants, only one out of six.

Hired through referrals
***********************

It is possible to modify this report even further to see how many referred applicants end up being
hired.

> To view this data, click on a :icon:`fa-plus-square` :guilabel:`(Job Position)` row, which reveals a

Reviewer 2: I think I'd prefer dynamic content in brackets "[..]" as well as lowercase
```suggestion
To view this data, click on a :icon:`fa-plus-square` :guilabel:`[job position]` row, which reveals a
```

drop-down menu. Then, click :guilabel:`State` to show the various states that applicants are
currently in.

.. note::

>    Only states that have applicants in it are shown for each job position. If a state does **not**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Only states that have applicants in them are shown for each job position. If a state does **not**
```

   have any applicants, it does not appear in the list.

To expand the other rows and display the various states, click on the :icon:`fa-plus-square`

> :guilabel:`(Job Position)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`(Job Position)` button.
```

> :guilabel:`(Job Position)` button.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`[job position]` button.
```

.. image:: recruitment_analysis/state.png
   :align: center

>    :alt: The detailed pivot table view displaying the number of referrals and the total applicants,
>          along with how many applicants are in each state.

Reviewer 2: Please keep alt tags to a single line, if possible :)
```suggestion
   :alt: The detailed pivot table view displaying applicants hired through referrals.
```

In this example, the :guilabel:`Experienced Developer` job position is the most successful in terms
of referrals. Both of the hired employees came form internal referrals. Meanwhile, there have been

> no hired employees for the :guilabel:`Chief Executive Officer`, and the only hired employee for the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
no hired employees for the :guilabel:`Chief Executive Officer` position, and the only hired employee for the
```

====================
Recruitment analysis
====================

The *Recruitment Analysis* report allows recruiting departments to see which job positions have
the most applicants, which have the most referrals, and how long it takes for applicants to move
through the pipeline.

Knowing how many applicants each specific job position has, along with statistics about how many are
hired and refused, can provide valuable insights. This information can assist the recruiting team to
pivot their strategies to acquire the most desirable candidates.

Recruitment analysis report
===========================

Start by navigating to :menuselection:`Recruitment app --> Reporting --> Recruitment Analysis`.
This presents a line chart of all applicants for the last year.

Three separate color-coded metrics are presented: :guilabel:`In Progress`, :guilabel:`Hired`, and

> :guilabel:`Refused`.

Reviewer 3: Do you think it would be beneficial or "not worth it" to mention that the 'Refused' line might not readily appear if there haven't been any refused applicants? Just something to consider during your revisions -- not a requirement.

> Hover the cursor over a month of the chart and a pop-up window appears, displaying the specific

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Hover the cursor over a month of the chart, and a pop-up window appears, displaying the specific
```
added comma for enhanced sentence pacing and flow

numbers for that month.

.. image:: recruitment_analysis/line-chart.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The default Recruitment Analysis report.

Pivot table view
----------------

For a more detailed view of the information in the :guilabel:`Recruitment Analysis` report, click
the :icon:`oi-view-pivot` :guilabel:`(Pivot)` icon in the top-right corner. This displays all the
information in a pivot table.

In this view, the job positions are displayed in the rows, and the columns display the total numbers
of applicants, including how many of those applicants were hired or refused. The displayed
information can be modified, if desired.

> In this example, there are 17 total applicants. Out of that 17, three have been hired, and four

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this example, there are 17 total applicants. Out of those 17, three have been hired, and four
```

> refused. Each job position lists the corresponding number of applicants hired and refused. The

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
refused. The
```
opting to remove this sentence because this same information was just represented in the paragraph above

:guilabel:`Experienced Developer` position has eight total applicants, two of which were hired, and
two were refused.

.. image:: recruitment_analysis/pivot-view.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The detailed pivot table view.

Use case: applicants with referrals
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To get a better understanding of how effective the company's :doc:`referral program <../referrals>`
is, the :guilabel:`Recruitment Analysis` report can be modified to show how many applicants were
referred by current employees.

From the :icon:`oi-view-pivot` :guilabel:`(Pivot)` view of the :guilabel:`Recruitment Analysis`

> report, first click on the :guilabel:`Measures` drop-down button.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
report, first click the :guilabel:`Measures` button to reveal a drop-down menu of options.
```

Click both :guilabel:`Has Referrer` and :guilabel:`Count`, to activate those two measures. Then,
click :guilabel:`# Applicant`, :guilabel:`# Hired`, and :guilabel:`# Refused` to deactivate those
default measures.

Now, the column displays the number of applicants that came from a referral in the :guilabel:`Has

> Referral` column, and the total number of applicants in the :guilabel:`Count` column.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Referrer` column, and the total number of applicants in the :guilabel:`Count` column.
```

.. image:: recruitment_analysis/referral.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The detailed pivot table view displaying the number of referrals and the total applicants.

In this example, the :guilabel:`Experienced Developer` job position has the most applicants from
referrals. Out of the eight applicants, six have applied through a referral from a current employee.
Meanwhile, the :guilabel:`Marketing and Community Manager` job position has the least amount of
referrals out of the total applicants, only one out of six.

Hired through referrals
***********************

It is possible to modify this report even further to see how many referred applicants end up being
hired.

To view this data, click on a :icon:`fa-plus-square` :guilabel:`(Job Position)` row, which reveals a

> drop-down menu. Then, click :guilabel:`State` to show the various states that applicants are

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
drop-down menu. Then, click :guilabel:`State` to show the various states applicants are
```

currently in.

.. note::
   Only states that have applicants in them are shown for each job position. If a state does **not**
   have any applicants, it does not appear in the list.

> To expand the other rows and display the various states, click on the :icon:`fa-plus-square`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To expand the other rows, and display the various states, click on the :icon:`fa-plus-square`
```

> :guilabel:`(Job Position)` button.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`(Job)` button.
```
When I hover over that +, the tooltip reads as just "Job" -- so it might be worth double-checking on this during your revisions. Thanks!

Author: The text that is pulled is called the 'Job Position" on the main recruitment dashboard. So you see that wording- and what is listed there is what is shown on the report. So even though the tool tip just says "job" I think to be consistent with the rest of the documentation/terminology, I kept them the same.

.. image:: recruitment_analysis/state.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The detailed pivot table view displaying the number of referrals and the total applicants,
         along with how many applicants are in each state.

In this example, the :guilabel:`Experienced Developer` job position is the most successful in terms

> of referrals. Both of the hired employees came form internal referrals. Meanwhile, there have been

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
of referrals. Both of the hired employees came from internal referrals. Meanwhile, there have been
```
